# Models/Tools for Coding with LLMs

This page contains resources and information related to AI coding models and tools.

## Powerful models for coding Tasks

* [Kimi K2: Open Agentic Intelligence](https://moonshotai.github.io/Kimi-K2/?utm_source=alphasignal&utm_campaign=2025-07-15&asuniq=98a017d3): Kimi K2 is a Mixture-of-Experts model with 32 billion activated parameters and 1 trillion total parameters. It achieves state-of-the-art performance in frontier knowledge, math, and coding among non-thinking models.
* [DeepSeek V3 0324](https://api-docs.deepseek.com/news/news250325): a 685B-parameter, mixture-of-experts model, is the latest iteration of the flagship chat model family from the DeepSeek team.
* [Devstral](https://mistral.ai/news/devstral-2507?utm_source=alphasignal&utm_campaign=2025-07-15&asuniq=e221967b): Devstral Medium is available through our API, and sets a new point on the cost/performance pareto frontier, surpassing Gemini 2.5 Pro and GPT 4.1 for a quarter of the price. For those who prefer on-premise solutions, Devstral Medium can be directly deployed on private infrastructure, offering enhanced data privacy and control. We also support custom fine-tuning for Devstral Medium, allowing enterprises to customize the model for specific use cases and achieve optimal performance tailored to their specific requirements. 
* [DeepSWE-Preview](https://huggingface.co/agentica-org/DeepSWE-Preview): a reasoning-enabled coding agent trained from Qwen3-32B with only reinforcement learning (RL). It achieves an impressive 59% on SWE-Bench-Verified with test-time scaling, reaching SOTA for open-weight coding agents. 

## Tools

* [How to Protect AI-Generated Code Quality Using SonarQube AI Code Assurance](https://www.sonarsource.com/resources/how-to-protect-ai-generated-code-quality/?utm_medium=paid&utm_source=google&utm_campaign=ss-protect-ai-code&utm_content=21774971465&utm_term=ai%20assisted%20coding&s_category=Paid&s_source=Paid%20Search&s_origin=google&s_campaign=SQ-EMEA-East-DACH-Generic&s_content=AI&s_term=ai%20assisted%20coding&s_category=Paid&s_source=Paid%20Search&s_origin=Google&cq_src=google_ads&cq_cmp=21774971465&cq_con=166756621845&cq_term=ai%20assisted%20coding&cq_med=&cq_plac=&cq_net=g&cq_pos=&cq_plt=gp&gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=21774971465&gclid=CjwKCAjw1dLDBhBoEiwAQNRiQcSqQ9l1smH55RXn9RBcNTXeV5FSHth-yFcJWJcowpQ4_YcFP460HRoCXU8QAvD_BwE): It's imperative to ensure that AI-generated code meets the same high standards as code written manually by developers. This is where Sonar's AI Code Assurance comes into play. We provide comprehensive solutions spanning SonarQube for IDE, SonarQube Server, and SonarQube Cloud, designed to integrate seamlessly into your development workflow. These tools automatically analyze code for issues, enforce coding standards, and guide developers in remediating problems effectively.

* [Vibe Kanban](https://github.com/BloopAI/vibe-kanban): Vibe Kanban streamlines this process, enabling you to: (1) Easily switch between different coding agents, (2) Orchestrate the execution of multiple coding agents in parallel or in sequence, (3) Quickly review work and start dev servers, (4) Track the status of tasks that your coding agents are working on, and (5) Centralise configuration of coding agent MCP configs
